>> Melkey: So with a new middleware
handler, let's go back to our app.go and
add this new middleware handler.
So in application we
have our token handler.
Let's add middleware, like so, okay?
And this is gonna come from
the middleware.User middleware package.
Okay, it gets auto imported.
>> Melkey: So we have an error.
So, GetUserToken,
let's see what's going on.
So PostgresTokenStore, this sort of,
okay, PostgresUserStore, there you go.
Now it's happy.
I put the wrong PostgresTokenStore
on the method receiver there.
Make sure it's PostgresUserStore,
or else you get errors that the interface
you're using isn't satisfied there.
We'll do the middleware,
I guess we can call it handler, okay?
And here we can just say,
middleware.UserMiddleware, like so.
And then here, because we're going
to be instantiating a struct,
we don't really necessarily need
a constructor every single time,
we can instantiate it in place like this.
So we can do middleware.UserMiddleware.
And then user store will
be that UserStore variable.
And down here we can do middleware,
is middleware handler, like so.
All right, we have one more spot to
modify, which would be in routes.go.
And this is gonna be
a pretty interesting one.
So here you can see that we have
all of these methods declared.
We have a get methods, post,
put, delete, etc, etc.
So CH actually offers us this
really cool way of grouping
a bunch of these functions together.
And then we can basically
facilitate if any of them
are going to require a middleware or not.
So it gives us more control and
granularity over kinda, this access layer
to what a logged in user, not logged
in user, and admin user can hit and
access through our different methods here,
our different routes.
So, we can do this by, right underneath
the rchi.NewRouter, you can do r.Group.
You can see here,
group creates a new inline mux with
a copy of the middleware stack.
It's a useful group of handlers along the
same routing path that use an additional
set of middlewares, okay?
So again, you can also group them by /V1.
You can have your V1 routes here.
You can also group by V2 and
have your new modified routes there.
But an aspect that I like about this is
it allows us to add a middleware into
this group and have the functions within
the group kind of adhere to them, okay?
So here we can do an anonymous func.
So func, r will be a chi.Router, like so.
Open the function body up.
First argument will be r.Use.
Or not argument, but
the first thing we'll write is Is r.Use.
And then we put app.MiddlewareAuthenticate
as a first class citizen.
And we can actually just see our .use,
use appends more middlewares
onto the router stack.
So exactly what we just
built as our middleware,
we can now append it to
the existing Chi muck stack.
So can do r.Use and
app.MiddlewareAuthenticate.
So I had to repeat myself, I just want
to make sure that was clear, okay?
And then we can go ahead and
take the workouts/ GET method,
and all these methods here.
Okay, so the handle GetWorkoutByID,
CreateWorkout, UpdateWorkout,
DeleteWorkout.
Actually, we don't even need to bring in
the CreateWorkout, we can leave that out.
Actually, let's bring these ones, yeah.
So the GetWorkout, CreateWorkout,
UpdateWorkout, and DeleteWorkout,
we can take these and drop them within
the group that we just defined.
And then you should have three
methods outside of that grouping,
which is HealthCheck, HandleRegisterUser,
and HandleCreateToken, okay?
So now if we save and
we restart our server.
>> Melkey: Okay, no obvious scary errors.
You can go here into one
of our other terminals.
Clear., we can do the health check.
So curl localhost:8080/health,
everything should be working accordingly.
But you may be thinking,
why do we just spend all this time to do
something that has really no benefit?
Cuz if you notice, if you go back to
our middleware here in the method,
regardless of the case for
a person without any auth headers or
all of this logic,
the end is still the same.
We're still just going to set the user and
then serve the HTTP,
the next function that's in
the chain HTTP method, right?
But really, we haven't done anything.
Okay, so if we go back to our
routes here for a second, here,
it's grouped with this
authenticate method.
Okay, cool, so all requests are gonna
be injecting with anonymous user or
a logged in user.
But as far as the scope of these
functions, they actually don't care.
They're gonna act the same way.
There's no logic telling
them to behave differently
depending on what that value
is within the context.
So in the next bit, we're actually
going to introduce a new function
that's actually going to wrap each
individual protected route, and it checks
if the user in the request context is
an anonymous user and logged in user.
And then what to do.
Do we want to give them access to the rest
of the route, or do you want to just say
block them and say, hey,
you cannot access these routes at all?
So if we go back into our
middleware right here,
we can go all the way to the bottom and
can give ourselves some more room.
So, I just want to very much emphasize
the point of what happened, right?
We just blanketed a bunch of
routes with this middleware.
And all this authenticate method does
is insert user that's anonymous or
insert user that's not anonymous.
That's it.
And so, this following function is going
to be able to receive that context,
call the getUser function and
from the getUser function, depend or
decide what to do, pass or no pass.
So, how does that look?
We can do func,
is gonna be a user middleware, and
here we can call this
function requireUser.
>> Melkey: Okay, a requireUser, it's
also going to have that same ability to
pass on to the next HTTP
function right away.
It's gonna be http.HandlerFunc,
like so, and
to respond with an http.handlerFunc,
all right?
And right away we can
return http.HandlerFunc.
We're gonna call it an anonymous function.
So, Func w HTTP ResponseWriter,
pointer to HTTP request.
I'm gonna open this up,
and here we're gonna do,
user is going to be getUser, pass in r.
And here we're gonna evaluate.
If user.is anonymous,
I'm gonna do utils.writeJSON.
I'm going to respond with w.
And here I'm gonna do
HTTP status unauthorized.
>> Melkey: Oops.
>> Melkey: Okay, utils.envelope,
and here we can just say error.
And say, you must be logged
in to access this route.
Okay, and then we can return.
>> Melkey: Next we can just
do next.serverHTTP(w, r).
And that's all those
functions going to do,
cuz the heavy lifting was already done
by the authenticate middleware that's
injecting what that anonymous user or
user struck is.
And getUser is gonna be a very
simple function that just
extracts the value from that.
>> Melkey: So now, if we go back
to routes, these functions here,
we can actually do something pretty cool.
We can do app.Middleware,
and we can do RequireUser,
and we can wrap these functions around it,
like so.
>> Melkey: Okay, so you can see we
had this app.WorkoutHandler handle
getWorkuoutID.
And now we're passing it and
wrapping around this
app.Middleware.RequireUser function.
>> Melkey: Okay, so
then we can do app.Middleware RequireUser.
>> Melkey: Can do it to all of them.
Or if you want, you can even add it to
a upper header of the use function.
Having it fully authenticate
via this required user.
I'm being a little bit more specific and
individually wrapping each and
every single HTTP function I
want a user to be present for.
There's many different
ways you can handle it.
You can have your authenticate, you can
even have another function here, so r.Use,
and you can have another one that checks
all the required users, if you want.
And that can be part of the grouping.
Or we can just handle them
individually like this.
>> Melkey: And now, if we go back to
our Go, let's bring down the server.
Go run main.go like so.
Okay, that all works.
If we go back to the exact same terminal,
if we run the exact same curl,
this should work,
because status is unavailable, right?
But if you do some like curl
localhost:8080/workout/2,
you can see you must be logged
in to access this route.
Because I just called it as
some random nobody, right?
Some anonymous user.
Again, the specific person
would probably ask,
why are we blocking access
to getting workouts?
This is just an example.
This is a very just core example.
Probably you want to have the ability for
anonymous users to look at workouts and
peruse and
check out your app to an extent.
And maybe you do these kind of blogs on
creating a workout, updating a workout,
dealing a workout.
But the the core here is that
we're demonstrating that you can
fully block access to routes that
you control and that you choose.